 
### Opening Remarks (15:00 EEST)

- Acad. Ioan-Aurel Pop (President, Romanian Academy)<br />

- Prof. Daniel David (Rector, Babes-Bolyai University; Corresponding Member of the Romanian Academy)<br />

- Acad. Octavian Popescu (President, E.G. Racoviță Foundation)<br />

### Belgica’s Legacy (15:15 EEST)

- Acad. Prof. Emeritus Patrick De Dekker (Australian National University, Canberra; Australian Academy of Sciences)<br />
*On the extraordinary achievements by the biologist Emil Racoviță during and after the Belgica expedition*

- Anders Bache (The Roald Amundsen House, Norway)<br />
*Roald Amundsen's House and the Belgica expedition*

- Carol Smith (Executive Director,  Frederick A. Cook Society, New York, USA)<br />
*Frederick Cook reimagined*

- Olivier de Schrevel and Charlotte Rolin Jacquemyns (Georges Lecointe Family, Belgium)<br />
 *The Belgica expedition: some highlights of Emile Racovitza*

- Julian Sancton (book author)<br />
 *“Madhouse at the End of the Earth” - live Q&A with the author*

- Prof. Peter Convey (British Antarctic Survey, NERC, UK) & Dr. Iryna Kozeretska (Natl. Antarctic Sci. Center of Ukraine)<br />
Belgica antarctica *-- the Antarctic continent's only true insect*

### Marine Biology, Biospeleology, Speleology, and beyond (17:00 EEST)

- Prof. Angel Ginés (University of Balearic Islands, Mallorca)<br />
* Coves del Drac and the beginnings of biospeleology*

- Prof. David Culver (American Univ., Washington, USA)<br />
*E.G. Racoviță, the father of biospeleology*

- Prof. Bogdan P. Onac (Univ. South Florida and E.G. Racoviță Institute of Babeș-Bolyai University, Cluj-Napoca, Romania)<br />
*Speleology: A look into its past and future*

- Penelope Boston (NASA Astrobiology Institute, USA)<br />
*Alien worlds beneath our eet*


### Closing Remarks (18:00 EEST)
- Dr. Călin Cașcaval (Co-founder, E.G. Racoviță Foundation, and great grandson of Emil G. Racoviță)<br />
*E.G. Racoviță Foundation - Opportunities for New Generations*
