---
title: "WASPS: Guardian Angels from Hell"
layout: 'post'
lang: en
ref: wasps2024
date_range: May 15 - Aug 31, 2024
description: "an alternative zoology exhibition where artists and academics present the significant environmental benefits of wasps.
Combining digital objects, 3d prints, interactive views, and narative animations, the exhibition offers an insight
into the life of tiny parasitoid wasps."
location: Cluj-Napoca, Romania, Zoological Museum
card_banner: /assets/events/wasps2024/poster.jpg
keywords:
  - Wasps
  - Environment
---

## {{ page.title }}, {{ page.location }}, {{ page.date_range }}

{% include figure url="/assets/events/wasps2024/poster.jpg" %}

The {{ site.data.xlate.foundation_title[page.lang]}} {{ site.data.xlate.foundation_subtitle[page.lang]}} is proud to support the exhibition ["WASPS: Guardian Angels from Hel"](https://www.facebook.com/events/3389584648001175){:target="_blank"}, organized by the Biology and Ecology Department (hungarian section) of the Babeș-Bolyai University (UBB), The Zological Musemum of UBB, the University Cultural Patrimony Department, and Cultural UBB.

The exhibition "Wasps: Guardian Angels from Hell" is a first in Romania to focus on parasitoid wasps, a topic little known to the general public. The purpose of the exhibition is to inform the general public about the significant benefits that wasps bring to the ecosystem. It aims to change the negative perception of these insects and to eliminate the fears associated with them. The exhibition concept is interactive and itinerant, marking the beginning of a series of such annual exhibitions. The event will take place at the Museum of Zoology in Cluj-Napoca in May 2024 will also be open during Museum Night 2024. The exhibition will include 3D printed sculptural works, virtual 3D models, comics and macro photography, bringing the miniature universe within reach of visitors some parasitoids.

The idea of the exhibition is born from the need to correct the negative perception and fears about parasitoid wasps, often ignored or considered harmful. The main driver of this sentiment is the lack of information and understanding of the vital role these insects play in the balance of terrestrial ecosystems. The exhibition aims to provide an educational and interactive platform to bring to light the importance and benefits of parasitoid wasps for the environment. The target audience consists of people interested in nature and the environment, who will have the opportunity to discover and better understand the fascinating world of these unnoticed but essential insects for our ecosystems. This exhibition is part of a series of science events, providing an innovative setting for scientific communication and promoting dialogue between the public and researchers.


